The rightmost column in the all pages report is
the often overlooked but potentially very useful metric page value.
The page value metric is designed to indicate the amount of support that pages are
providing to goal and
e-commerce conversions that occur after the page view has occurred in the session.
To illustrate page value let's look at lifecoach.com The data that we'll
see is for demo purposes only it's not real GA data from lifecoach.com.
But the reason that we're referring to
lifecoach.com for the page value discussion is that
there are at least two conversions on
lifecoach.com sign up today to sign up for a newsletter.
One example of coaching that we can purchase would be one-on-one coaching book here.
But you'll notice as with most other website experiences there are
many other pages that don't necessarily lead directly to conversion.
There's the blob. There are quizzes and tests.
There are many About pages.
These pages are not necessarily directly part of a conversion funnel but they are
designed to support conversion If only
indirectly and that's exactly what page value is designed to surface.
The support that pages that are not directly
in the conversion funnel are still providing two conversions.
If a user accesses the what is a life coach page you want to know if this page is making
the user more likely to convert in order for
Google Analytics to be able to calculate page value,
there has to be at least one goal with goal value configured,
or e-commerce revenue or both to configure value for a goal.
We can switch value on in the goal configuration.
For now we're going to add an arbitrary value of one US dollar.
So, let's say that we had
a one dollar goal value for the newsletter sign-up goal on lifecoach.com.
Let's take a look at five sample sessions.
Three of the sessions had a goal conversion.
Now, how would Google Analytics calculate
page value relative to this one dollar goal conversion?
Here are five pages that we hope are supporting conversion.
We see that in the case of the press room page.
There were three sessions in which the page
was viewed at least once before the conversion,
and five sessions total in which the page
was viewed with or without a conversion following.
If we go down the list,
we see the goal value and the number of sessions for each of the pages.
Then we could do the calculation of page value.
Of course, Google Analytics would do this for us behind the scenes.
Sixty cents, seventy five cents,
fifty cents, zero, and thirty three cents.
So, we see that the success stories pages has the highest page value.
This means that the success stories page is helping us.
If a page is viewed and a conversion is
occurring frequently afterwards in the same session,
that page is helping us.
If on the other hand,
a page is viewed over and over and over again,
and a conversion is never happening in the same session,
that page is probably not helping us.
That's why the page value metric is so helpful in
identifying pages that are helping convergence.
As a note, the page value metric is not really designed to
evaluate pages that you already know are part of the conversion funnel.
Page value is intended more to identify
those pages that are not directly in a conversion funnel,
but still exist to support conversions.
The paid value metric in relation to e-commerce revenue,
works largely the same way as for goal value.
The difference is page value for e-commerce is based on actual e-commerce revenue.
So, when we're calculating page value based on e-commerce revenue,
we're seeing the actual average revenue that
is accrued after a page is viewed in a session.
Here we see the page that is contributing most to revenue per session.
Going back to goal value,
it can sometimes be hard to decide how to specify the value of a goal.
Let's consider a few different approaches.
If we have one goal on our site and that goal is to sell a t-shirt,
and each t-shirt costs $15.
We can use the actual purchase price as the goal value.
That's a straightforward scenario.
If we have a lead submission,
and each closed lead is worth about $2,000 to us,
and we know that we close 10 percent of the leads that are submitted,
we could estimate the goal value to be $200.
We could also use relative value.
Meaning that if we have a contact us submission, and newsletter sign-up,
and we feel that the contact us submission is
five times as important as the newsletter sign-up,
we could assign a goal value of five dollars to
contact us and one dollar to the newsletter sign-up.
Coming up, we'll also see how we could evaluate
page value for each of these goals independently.
For goals that are hard to put a monetary value on,
it's still perfectly valid to assign an arbitrary value of one dollar or $100,
or of course any currency that you are using.
Because even an arbitrary value for a goal,
will allow Google Analytics to calculate the page value metric.
We do want to keep in mind that page value is based on
all e-commerce revenue and goal value that is recorded in the view.
This of course is not ideal if you want to
evaluate a page value for just one type of conversion.
So, how could we evaluate page value for just e-commerce or a specific goal?
As one potential approach,
you could decide to just record revenue or
goal value for your most important conversion point.
If you have e-commerce,
you might decide not to configure goal value let's say for
a newsletter sign-up and instead use
page value only in relation to the e-commerce transactions.
But then of course,
you would not be able to use page value relative to that other newsletter sign-up goal.
As another approach, you could create separate views per conversion type.
This would be very clean.
You would just need to refer to the multiple views to
see the page value for different conversion types.
A more dynamic approach would be to create segments
that excludes sessions with the other conversion types.
For instance, here I've created a segment that excludes sessions in which there were
transactions and also exclude sessions in which goal one and goal three were completed.
This means that we can evaluate page value just
four sessions in which goal two potentially took place.
A downside to this approach is that we would be excluding
goal two in sessions where it also occurred with one of the other conversion types.
But overall, this approach will allow us to use
page value in relation to goal two value and of
course we would only have to exclude the other goals if
there was a goal value associated with the goals to begin with.
Now, with the segment applied to the pages report,
we're able to see page value relative to goal two only.
We also want to remember that page value has session scope not users scope,
this is a limitation.
This means that if I'm on lifecoach.com and I go to
the free quizzes page today and they sign up for coaching tomorrow,
the free quizzes page would not earn
any page value for the conversion that took place the next day.
So, we don't want to rule out a page that has a lower page value,
especially for a more complex conversion.
We'll want to use user scope sequence segments which we'll talk about coming
up to fully determine if a page is helping conversions in a later session.
So, certainly a higher page value is
an indicator that a page is helping conversions in the same session.
But a page with a lower page value
may still be helping conversions in a following session.